# DeepSide
This repository will be updated until 7 November...

## Abstract
Drug failures due to unforeseen adverse effects at clinical trials pose health risks for the participants and lead to substantial financial losses. Side effect prediction algorithms have the potential to guide the drug design process. LINCS  L1000  dataset  provides  a  vast  resource  of  cell  line  gene expression data perturbed by different drugs and creates a knowledge base for context specific features. The state-of-the-art approach that aims at using context specific information relies on only the high-quality experiments in LINCS L1000 and discards a large portion of the experiments. In this study, our goal is to boost the prediction performance by utilizing this data to its full extent. We experiment with 5 deep learning architectures. We find that a multi-modal architecture produces the best predictive performance among multi-layer perceptron-based architectures when drug chemical structure (CS), and the full set of drug perturbed gene expression profiles (GEX) are used as modalities. Overall, we observe that the CS is more informative than the GEX. A convolutional neural network-based model that uses only SMILES string representation of the drugs achieves the best results and provides 13.0\% macro-AUC and 3.1\% micro-AUC improvements over the state-of-the-art. We also show that the model is able to predict side effect-drug pairs that are reported in the literature but was missing in the ground truth side effect dataset.
